 
 
When you didn't speak up about your salary at work and didn't receive it, when 
you didn't negotiate properly, when you missed an opportunity, when you 
overpaid for something, when you started a short-lived work relationship, or 
when you got sick due to social obligations – all of these have caused both 
financial and non-financial losses to you. 
 
I ask you to write all of these down and be honest with yourself. 
 
 
 
 
Becoming Conformist 
 
Another subsequent downside of passiveness is that you tend to conform to 
societal norms. One of the leading transplant surgeons in the United States is an 
Iranian immigrant. He defined an issue that got me thinking. 
 
He said, "Because we were immigrants, my family wanted me to become either 
a doctor or an engineer so I could bring honor to them, but I truly wanted to 
become a pilot." 
 
Keep in mind that he is now one of the world's top transplant surgeons, but he 
still longs to become a pilot. He believes he missed out because of his 
passiveness. 
 
A few years ago, I met a man who was an employee. After his working hours, he 
engaged in trade, buying and selling, importing goods, and even had a boutique. 
He also dabbled in real estate, and his income from his side business far 
exceeded his salary. He had even bought a few houses, perhaps just their rent 
would have been enough for the rest of his life. I asked him why he didn't resign 
from his job. 
 
His answer was quite unusual. He said it was because of what people might say, 
because working as an employee held value for his family. See, this person had 
become conformist, and how much loss he has suffered! 
 
One of my students closed her page with the first negative comment she 
received and became an employee of another company. She reopened her 
page, and within four months, she gained 100,000 followers. However, she 
closed her own page because she couldn't handle the first negative comment 
due to conformity. She couldn't accept it. 
 
Another example of conforming involves young couples, especially those who 
spend all their savings on wedding ceremonies. Before the COVID-19 pandemic, 
couples would spend their entire savings on lavish weddings. They would give 
away all their savings for a single night of celebration. 
 
My spouse and I didn't have a wedding ceremony; instead, we went on two trips. 
We had no financial problems, but the fact that someone would conform and 
spend their two years' worth of savings just for one night of celebration is 
painful. They spent money that could have improved their lives; they spent it 
because of their passiveness. It's truly horrifying, don't you agree? 
 
Issues in Parenting 
 
Another subsequent damage from passiveness is mainly for mothers. How much 
have you struggled with parenting due to passiveness and passiveness? Let me 
give you a few straightforward examples: 
 
They don't educate their children about sexual matters. Most of us faced an 
identity crisis during adolescence, such as who we are and what is happening to 
our bodies. What kind of people are our parents? We all faced this challenge, so 
why don't you talk to your child about sexual matters? 
 
What kind of role models are you for the next generation? They see your 
behavior. One mother realized that her son had a scar on his shoulder. It turned 
out that his classmates were constantly teasing him, and he was too shy to tell 
anyone about it and sought to hide it. The child couldn't even tell his teacher at 
daycare and was too shy to tell his family. Why? Because he had become just 
like his mother, timid. The school counselor told the mother, "If you want your 
child to become better, you must first be a better role model." 
 
Diminished Comfort 
 
Another subsequent damage from passiveness is that it takes comfort out of 
many of your lives. How many times have you worried about what others might 
say, even when it's perfectly acceptable for you? 
 
A woman needs to wear makeup even when she's going to the corner store to 
buy bread.