 Your choice 
may be any of these, but again, we don't have complaining. 
 
 
 
In my private sessions, it was quite common for female managers to speak 
negatively about their employees and complain. They would say, "We don't 
have good employees right now. They are not diligent or responsible. We have 
fearful and lazy employees coming to me." 
 
Most of these managers neither had the extra money to offer higher salaries nor 
possessed specific skills or experience that would make employees say, "Instead 
of higher pay, I'll learn these skills and gain experience."  
 
Years ago, in my advertising agency, I used to offer internship programs and put 
out calls for applications. Among those who applied, I would conduct interviews 
and tests and select only a few. We had a high demand for unpaid internships 
lasting from three to six months. Why? Because they knew that within our 
organization, there were so many extraordinary things they could learn, skills 
they could acquire, their self-confidence would soar, and they would receive 
plenty of training to become a lady boss. The value of these opportunities was 
much higher than just a paycheck. 
 
So, in my opinion, if you can't find good employees, either accept it and move 
forward with the employees you have or change the conditions. When I say 
change the conditions, it means you have two options: either make your 
business more profitable so that you can offer higher salaries and attract 
experts, or improve yourself and invest in yourself so that at least one 
employee, for your sake and because they learn from you, would want to work 
with you. But under any circumstances, we don't have complaining. Either 
accept it or change it. 
 
I receive many messages from young women aged 20 to 35, even those who are 
30 to 35 years old, saying that they are stuck at home, and their families don't 
allow them to work. Living at home is very difficult. I say the same thing to 
them: 
 
Either accept it or change it. Let's see if anyone can say anything if you cover 
your living expenses yourself. You expect your parents to both provide for you 
and support your hobbies while wanting to do whatever you like according to 
your beliefs. It doesn't work that way. Either accept it and stay at home, or 
improve yourself gradually to be able to get what you want. But under no 
circumstances do we have complaining! 
 
The worst form of embarrassment is when you don't try, don't express yourself, 
don't exhibit healthy behavior, and try to vent it all out through complaining. 
But complaining doesn't help at all. Erase it completely from your life! 
 
One-Minute Review: 
 
Let's review together for a minute. The first obstacle for the shy lady was that 
she didn't know what the right course of action was. 
 
To speak or not to speak? To express or not to express? Your behavior entirely 
indicated what the right behavior was. 
 
Your family came to your salon again, and you didn't ask them for money. Based 
on the behavior criteria, was this behavior right or wrong? 
 
Someone owed you money and didn't pay. You made an agreement with them 
again, and that time passed too. Now, you're hesitant to call them. Is your 
behavior right or not? 
 
Workbook Exercise: 
 
From the things you haven't done in the past due to cowardice, from which 
you've missed out or didn't know what the right course of action was, or where 
you've adapted, make a list now and assess them based on behavior criteria. 
 
Someone you care about calls you and asks if they can use your home for a 
night, for instance, for their fiancé's birthday surprise. They want to surprise 
them and say that you shouldn't even be there, implying that you're not invited. 
On one hand, you want to say no, but on the other hand, you're concerned that 
rejecting it might end the relationship, and your relationship is important to you. 
What is the right course of action?