 While, in reality, you couldn't assert your rights. All these harms make you 
resent yourself. The person who is always with you, who you are today, is 
yourself, and today, you are bad with just one person, yourself, because you've 
been shy. What's worse than being your own enemy?! 
 
Feeling the Brunt: Revisit this chapter once more and complete the Injury 
Worksheet. You must write down all the items at least once and show your 
passiveness injuries to yourself. 
 
By writing down these passiveness injuries, tell yourself deep within your mind, 
"It's true that I've tried many times to overcome passiveness and failed, and it 
has caused me pain and shame. But the greater pain is to remain timid. If I had 
the courage, I might have held a higher job position. I could have been famous. I 
could have had a dream life. So, I'm leaving passiveness behind." 
 
So, the first and most important step to becoming a courageous woman is to 
implement the Injury Technique. 
 
The Wrong Behavior Cycle: 
 
The Cause of Passiveness 
 
With all its harms, how can we rid ourselves of this passiveness and passiveness? 
Let's start with a simple definition of passiveness. 
 
Failure to perform the correct behavior or engaging in the wrong behavior to 
achieve our desires, due to wrong thoughts or lack of skills. 
 
You have a desire, and to attain that desire, you either fail to perform the 
correct behavior or engage in the wrong behavior. Why? For two reasons: 
 
1. You have wrong thoughts. 
2. You lack the skills. 
 
The Checkbook Incident 
 
I'll share an example from my own life. When I was designing a website, I needed 
to obtain a checkbook from the bank, but I wasn't doing the right thing. The 
right thing to do was to go to the bank and request a checkbook. However, I 
wasn't doing that because I thought they wouldn't give me one, absolutely not! I 
was thinking, "They won't give me a checkbook." At that time, I didn't have an 
office; I was working from home, and I had the wrong mindset. 
 
Once, I went to the bank and asked one of their employees, "Can I get a 
checkbook?" They asked, "Do you have a business license?" I said no and left. 
 
But my wife told me, "You went to the wrong person. That employee is for 
regular people, and it's obvious they would say no. But you're not a regular 
person. You need to go straight to the bank manager's office. That's something 
not everyone does. When you do this, they'll see that you're different, and they 
will treat you differently." 
 
So, I did just that, and things went completely differently. I went inside the bank 
manager's office and said that I needed a checkbook. It was a completely 
different experience. The bank manager himself asked me to sit down and 
guided me through the process. He asked, "If you don't have a business license, 
can you prove that you have a good income?" I replied, "Yes, my work is from 
home, but my income is good. You can check my account." 
 
The interesting part was that things worked out. My desire was to get a 
checkbook, and by doing the right thing, with the right person, using the right 
words, I achieved my desire. Before, I didn't go to the bank manager; I went to 
the wrong person. I'm sure in many cases, you do the same. 
 
For instance, a woman who says, "I have a brilliant idea, but I don't have the 
capital," thinks that no one will invest in her. She either goes to the wrong 
person or makes the wrong request. 
 
Two people with the same skills attend a job interview. We reject one of them 
completely, while the other one, by behaving differently, with different 
conditions, gets hired. Different behaviors lead to different outcomes. 
 
Exacerbating Passiveness 
 
This is where we need to talk about the cycle of wrong behavior. Consider 
someone who is weak in confronting strangers and avoids sensitive social 
situations. They don't see strangers, so they never acquire the skill of talking to 
them, and as time goes by, they become even shyer. 
 
It's exactly like someone with weak arms who can't lift weights.