 
 
 
 
Mental Bargaining Forbidden 
 
A large category of extremely unhealthy behaviors rooted in cowardice is when I 
avoid doing many things because I engage in mental bargaining. I tell myself 
that I forgive the missed opportunity and attribute it to the other party; we have 
a saying for it: "They've offered water to the shrine." 
 
A very tangible example of this is when, for instance, a mother punishes her 
child, takes away their joys, genuinely sacrifices herself, but not out of altruism, 
rather out of cowardice. Otherwise, altruism means unconditional love. Altruism 
means sacrificing my life with happiness, without expecting anything in return. 
 
But this mother is always engaged in mental self-flagellation and self-pity. She's 
always secretly making deals with herself. In her heart, she's made a deal: it's 
okay. When I get old, this child of mine is supposed to be my support. When I'm 
elderly, he will take care of me. 
 
You lend money to someone, and they don't pay you back. You don't go after 
what's rightfully yours. In your heart, you're bargaining. You say to yourself, "It's 
okay. Someday, it will come back from somewhere else."  
 
No, you're just embarrassed, and you put the labels of altruism and forgiveness 
on it.  
 
You don't go somewhere and don't assert yourself. You give undue discounts 
somewhere, you do work for free because you're a coward.  
 
Women who are starting their personal businesses make a lot of these mistakes. 
Deep down, they say, "It's okay. It will be compensated somewhere else."  
 
One example is a woman who does work at a lower price than the market or 
family and friends come to her for services and don't pay; for instance, a makeup 
artist, a painter, or a seamstress. Deep down, she says it's okay; they bring me 
more customers.  
 
Believe me, they talk like this. The fact that you bury embarrassment under the 
name of mental bargaining and forgiveness is one of the unhealthiest human 
behaviors, both in the family and at work. You have to abandon all these habits. 
 
Complaining is forbidden 
 
Someone who complains is referred to as a "shameful quarrelsome." It means 
you're angry, and you feel like nothing else can be done, so you keep 
complaining. You're whining. You know that the situation won't change. One of 
the unhealthiest behaviors is complaining. Why? 
 
Because it has the downsides and losses of cowardice, as well as those of 
belligerence. Jim Rohn has a fantastic quote: "If you don't like how things are, 
change it! You're not a tree." What a beautiful statement. We're not trees. What 
a wonderful statement. We don't have to be stubborn. 
 
Here are a few examples for you to fully understand the concept of surrendering 
and changing: 
 
It was about two years ago when one of my students said, "I'm not satisfied with 
my boss. He's very demanding. He makes me work too much. All of my tasks are 
urgent. I'm tired." 
 
"Alright, then quit," I said. 
 
"No, in the end, I need that money for my university tuition. I have to stay." 
 
"Well, be quiet about it." 
 
Of course, if you want to make a change, you can read and educate yourself 
alongside your current job. Attend different courses, improve your skills, receive 
training, and learn the necessary tools to be able to have another job. 
 
Or give it up and if you don't have the ability to find another job, then accept 
these conditions and surrender to them. 
 
Another example is those who complain about their country, I mean any country 
you live in. If you know me from before, you've almost never seen me complain. 
 
I ask all those who complain about their country: why don't you emigrate? Most 
of them say there's nowhere to go, with this dollar rate and this situation, they 
won't allow us to leave, and we don't even speak the language. I say, "Then be 
quiet." 
 
If you don't have the skills to find a job elsewhere, if you don't even know the 
language to go somewhere else, then this is your condition. Change the 
conditions of your country, change yourself, or leave this country.