 In any case, 
any yes you give becomes a commitment on your part. So, you should consider 
a few things to make a definitive decision: 
 
1. Priority of the Task: You can evaluate any request based on your priorities. If 
the request is time-sensitive, see if it competes with any of your higher 
priorities. For example, if you've allocated your time to prepare for an IELTS 
language exam and your neighbor asks you to attend a weekend party, but your 
language exam is more important, you can say your priority is the IELTS exam. If 
your colleague asks you to cover their shift instead of them, but you have family 
commitments, prioritize accordingly. 
 
2. Work Pressure: If you say yes, how much stress and pressure will it bring to 
you? Does the request require a short-term commitment, or does it entail a 
long-term commitment? For example, if your child's school asks you for 
financial help, it carries much less responsibility compared to you volunteering 
your time for physical repairs at the school. So, consider how much anxiety it 
brings. 
 
3. Position of the Other Party: Imagine a balance in your mind. Consider the 
position of the other party on one side and the effort their request requires on 
the other side. For instance, your neighbor wants to borrow your car so that her 
child can go to a late-night event. How much is your neighbor's position in your 
mind worth risking your car? In any case, if something unexpected happens and 
you hear about it personally, what will be your primary concern? Will it be about 
what happened to your car and who will pay for it, or will it be about the well-
being of the other person? 
 
4. Worst-Case Scenario: Lastly, look at what the worst possible outcome might 
be if you were to accept the request. If the other person fails to meet their 
commitment, what will be the consequences for you? Many times, people don't 
consider this aspect at all. When dealing with money that is vital to you, never 
risk it with just anyone. In the end, what if the car you lent gets into an accident? 
What questions will you be asking yourself? Will it be, "What happened to my 
car, and who is responsible for the repair cost?" or "Is the other person okay?" If 
your answer is the latter, then accept it, but if not, don't enter into such 
situations. 
 
So, the fourth point you should consider is the potential consequences of saying 
yes. If the consequences are critical and the situation is vital to you, don't get 
involved, regardless of how valuable the other person may be to you. If the 
other person is so valuable to you that you are willing to accept this loss and tell 
yourself that you're willing to risk your own comfort for that person, then say 
yes. However, otherwise, don't get involved in such situations. 
 
Can't You Make a Quick Decision? 
 
Making a definitive decision is often not easy. You need more time to consider. 
To evaluate whether you need more time, you can buy yourself some time. The 
technique I will teach you in the next chapter is called "time-buying." When you 
can't make a quick decision, you can buy yourself some time and think about it. 
 
The Use of "No" 
Well, the last topic in this chapter is "No." It's not about saying no to bread and 
water; it's about using the word "No." I told you earlier that this "No" isn't a 
reflection of Mrs. Pardis; however, there are situations where unfortunately you 
have to use this "No." 
 
You say "No" so that the other person comes to their senses, realizes that they 
are pushing their luck, and understands that by repeating their request, they are 
causing you distress. Here, you can say "No." My answer is negative, and your 
insistence is making me more stressed. I said no, and if you bring up this issue 
again, we may have to limit our relationship. No, this is something I don't want 
to think about, and you shouldn't bring it up again. 
 
In some situations, you are forced to use it.