 
We conducted extensive research, and I saw that one person from the beginning 
didn't want to use these techniques for good and progress. They practiced these 
techniques with the intention of taking advantage and seeking revenge on 
others, and in the end, their smoke blinded their own eyes. Rest assured! If your 
intentions are correct, the Character of Courage book will bring amazing results 
for you and your loved ones. 
 
I imagine these nights how much progress you'll make! This very achievement 
keeps the enthusiasm alive in my heart, and I persist in finishing the book. You 
may know that from a certain point onwards, we didn't hold any more Character 
of Courage workshops, and we even stopped registration for the online course. 
 
Although we received many requests from people willing to pay a million 
Tomans just for the workshop videos, I knew that I had a greater mission. Many 
women are still deprived of the Character of Courage. So I made a big decision, 
to present the workshop content in the form of a book. Now I know that the 
Character of Courage materials reach many more women. 
 
Razieh Mirzaei 
Spring 2022 
 
Chapter One 
The Root of Passiveness 
Hello, Ladyboss! 
Welcome to the first chapter of the book "Character Of Courage." In this 
chapter, I want to teach you the path to becoming a confident lady, how to 
leave passiveness behind, and boost your self-confidence in communication. 
This is something many of you struggle with, and it is truly essential for your 
success in life. 
I am Razieh Mirzaei, the founder of the LadyBoss Academy, and over the past 
three years, I have helped many ladies become confident women through the 
LadyBoss workshops. I am delighted to have you with me in this book, and I will 
share the essence of its content with you. I was born in November, raised in 
Shiraz, Chabahar, BandarAbbas, and Tehran. I am thrilled to be in touch with 
you. 
All the Courage in the World 
I want to start Chapter One with a very important question: If you had all the 
courage in the world right now, what would you do? If you possessed all the 
courage in the world, what action would you take? 
When I asked this question in LadyBoss workshops, one of my students replied, 
"If I had all the courage in the world, I would go to my boss and ask him what 
happened to the job promotion he promised me six months ago." 
Another student said, "If I had all the courage in the world, I would go to my 
spouse and tell them that our relationship is not the same as before, and the 
intimacy we once had is no longer there. It's better to think about a solution." 
Yet another student said, "If I had all the courage in the world, I would start 
recording videos of myself and share content because I want to create an 
Instagram page like many successful ones with millions of followers." 
Now it's your turn: If you had all the courage in the world, what would you do? 
Take 30 seconds to give yourself a chance to write down your answer. 
........................... 
........................... 
........................... 
 
Let's take five deep breaths together and start Chapter One professionally. 
Taking five deep breaths will help you set aside your daily concerns and focus on 
the book. 
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
 
Congratulations to you, Ladyboss 
Congratulations to all of you. My first congratulations are for the fact that you 
have this book. it means that you recognize that passiveness means not 
reaching many of the things you wanted in life. You know that passiveness has 
held you back, and you know that traces of passiveness exist within you. you 
know that passiveness is not inherent, and you can overcome it with education. 
I congratulate you; secondly, for choosing me as your coach. My dear ones, I am 
just like you; I've been in your shoes before, and that's why I understand you 
better than anyone else. 
During this time, many of my audience members have asked me, "Mrs.