 I put my heart and soul into my work, and 
all my customers are satisfied, just like you. If you introduce your friends to me, 
they will not only get excellent service from me, but I will also offer them a 30% 
discount or give them a small gift as a token of my appreciation. If you agree, 
please let me know. Thank you." 
 
I'll tell you how to say it more effectively and help my business better. 
 
Finally, the next step is to take a story together and publish my sample work. 
 
Another example of this requesting technique is when you want to ask for a 
raise for your job. You can say something like this: 
 
"Mr. Manager, Mrs. Manager, may I request to have a brief discussion with you 
today regarding an important matter? About my career progress and a salary 
increase. Please grant me a 15-minute opportunity to talk to you, as I believe 
that... You can say these sentences in various ways based on how you perceive 
the situation. 
 
Usually, when these techniques are taught to female employees, they often 
worry about what will happen if their request is not accepted. We are all familiar 
with the employer's attitude, and surely all of you know that my advice has 
always been for female managers to start their own businesses. However, if you 
use this method to request a salary increase from your employer and it is 
rejected, at least you will know that the problem is not with your request, and 
the issue will be returned to them. This is where you either accept it or consider 
making a change. So, asking correctly is much better than not asking or asking 
badly, isn't it? 
 
Workbook Exercise 
 
Now it's your turn. I want to give you three situations, and in the next 3 minutes, 
write your request based on these 6 steps. Ladies, please practice within these 3 
minutes. Later, we will go over the steps, and I will share my thoughts on each 
one. 
 
The first one is about borrowing money. However, simulate it for yourself based 
on your own circumstances, needs, and the person who first comes to your 
mind. 
 
The second is about asking for help from your spouse or partner with household 
chores. For example, how would you request help with doing the dishes? 
 
The third one is related to your business. For example, you want to acquire 
materials from a market discreetly. 
 
Many women may not know this, but you don't necessarily need to have cash on 
hand to procure the initial materials for your business and get it started. There 
are many solutions. Just taking materials discreetly, working with them, and 
paying off your debt when you sell the products can be an effective approach. In 
this particular scenario, let's assume you want to borrow fabric for sewing. 
 
... 
... 
... 
 
Exercise Answers 
 
Each of you provided a reason and wrote a method. It doesn't matter who you 
approach or what the circumstances are, but you can move forward with the 
task simply by following these steps. 
 
I have recorded the answers to this exercise in a video and included it as part of 
the book's gifts. I hope you can make the most of this special gift. 
 
(Gift Link) 
 
Well, we've come to the end of this challenging chapter. Thank you all. Now I 
want you to immediately start the next chapter. Good luck. 
 
Chapter Nine: 
Dealing with Mockery and Criticism 
 
Hello, Mrs. Manager. 
 
Welcome to the ninth session of the "Character with Authority" book. 
 
I'm Razieh Mirzaei, the founder of LadyBoss Academy, and in this chapter, I 
want to have a conversation with you and share with you techniques that you've 
been eagerly waiting for. I want to discuss how to respond when people ridicule 
us or criticize us. How do we express criticism about someone? How should we 
respond when we are criticized? What should we do with our aggressions and 
frustrations? What does Mrs. Authority do in such situations? 
 
I'm sure the teachings I'm giving you in this chapter will open new doors for you 
and help you build the personality you need to become a manager.