2 Marketing and the 7Ps – © CIM 2015 
Marketing and the 7Ps: A brief summary of marketing and how it work
“  Marketing is the 
management process 
responsible for 
identifying, anticipating 
and satisfying customer 
requirements profitably.”
Marketing and the 7Ps – © CIM 2015  3
Marketing and the 7Ps: A brief summary of marketing and how it work
01  
What is marketing?
CIM (The Chartered Institute of Marketing) offers the following definition for marketing:  
Sometimes people assume marketing is just 
about advertising or selling, but this is not the 
whole story. It is a key management discipline 
that ensures producers of goods and services 
can interpret consumer desires and match, or 
exceed them.
The marketing process is central to the business 
performance of companies, both large and small, 
because it addresses the most important aspects 
of the market. It is about understanding the 
competitive marketplace and ensuring you can 
tap into key trends, reaching consumers with the 
right product at the right price, place and time. 
Clever marketing has led to many 
recent business success stories - from 
pharmaceuticals to airlines, sports brands to 
food and drink, business-to-business companies 
to small, niche players.
Conversely, history reminds us that without 
proper marketing, you can’t get close to 
customers and satisfy their needs – and if you 
can’t, a competitor surely will.  
Getting close has become more important than 
ever as digital and mobile technology make 
inroads into all aspects of life. This revolution 
has also provided new tools to make marketing 
more targeted, relevant and effective.
Today, as competitive pressures increase, 
marketing skills have never been more highly 
valued. What was once seen as a departmental 
activity is now regarded as a frontline business 
attitude for all employees. 
The professionals who shape and implement 
marketing strategy contribute directly to 
the economy. Their skills attract and retain 
customers, build sales and increase profits  
– generating wealth for all. 
“ The management process responsible for 
identifying, anticipating and satisfying customer 
requirements profitably.”
Every product we buy, every store we visit, every media message we 
receive and every choice we make in our consumer society has been 
shaped by the forces of marketing. 
4 Marketing and the 7Ps – © CIM 2015 
Marketing and the 7Ps: A brief summary of marketing and how it work
02  
Why marketing?
Many organisations – especially small firms - are 
already marketing without realising it.
You might not be advertising your services, but 
you probably do make an effort to know your 
customers well. Your instincts tell you that 
figuring out what every customer wants, and 
meeting those expectations, will keep you in 
business. You know that you need to improve 
and extend existing products, and sometimes 
develop new ones. 
If this description rings true, your marketing 
activity closely fits the classic definition used 
by CIM.
But is this kind of ‘unconscious’ marketing 
adequate? 
If you don’t understand that you’re ‘doing’ 
marketing, it’s hard to keep things consistent 
over time. This isn’t an obvious problem for very 
small organisations, but marketing on the hoof 
becomes less feasible as you grow. 
How do you create a proper marketing 
strategy for the future? How can you keep 
up with your competitors, exploiting all the 
latest technological developments at a time 
of rapid change?
Applying a simple marketing framework is vital. 
It enables you to plan your activities in advance, 
find out what works, then use them again when 
and where they are most effective. 
The rest of this article will help you to do 
just that, giving you suggestions for practical 
marketing that builds on what you are  
already doing. 
 
Marketing and the 7Ps – © CIM 2015  5
Marketing and the 7Ps: A brief summary of marketing and how it work
It deals with what a company is going to 
produce; how much it is going to charge; how 
it is going to deliver products or services to 
the customer; and how it is going to tell its 
customers about its products and services. 
Traditionally, these considerations were known as 
the 4Ps — Product, Price, Place and Promotion. 
As marketing became a more sophisticated 
discipline, a fifth ‘P’ was added — People. 
More recently, two further ‘P’s were added 
— Process and Physical evidence. Originally 
formulated for the service industry, they are 
just as important in other sectors.
In the 1990s, as experts realised that business 
had to become more customer-centric, an 
alternative ‘4 Cs’ of marketing was proposed. 
Correlating almost directly with the original 4PS, 
they were: Customer, Cost, Convenience and 
Communication. The 7Ps model, however, has 
endured and more than adequately incorporates 
today’s customer-first marketing world.
P1 
Product 
There is no point in developing a 
product or service that no one wants to buy, yet 
many businesses decide what to offer first, then 
hope to find a market for it afterwards. 
Successful companies find out what customers 
need or want and then develop the right 
product with the right level of quality to meet 
their expectations, both now and in the future.
 – A product does not have to be tangible – an 
insurance policy can be a product. 
 – The perfect product provides value for the 
customer. This value is in the eye of the 
beholder — we must give our customers what 
they want, not what we think they want. 
 – Ask yourself whether you have a system in 
place to regularly check what your customers 
think of your product and your supporting 
services. 
 – Find out what their needs are now and 
whether they believe these will change in 
future. 
 – Beware the product quality trap – don’t take 
it too far by trying to sell a Rolls-Royce when 
the customer really wants a Nissan Micra.
6 Marketing and the 7Ps – © CIM 2015 
Marketing and the 7Ps: A brief summary of marketing and how it work
P2 
Price
A product is only worth what 
customers are prepared to pay for it. The price 
needs to be competitive, but this doesn’t mean 
you have to be the cheapest in your market – 
small businesses can compete with larger rivals 
by offering a more personal service, value-adds 
or better value for money. 
You also need to make a profit. Pricing is 
the only element of the marketing mix 
that generates revenue — everything else 
represents a cost to you. 
When considering the price of your product, 
it’s important to look at it from the customer’s 
perspective:
 – Price positions you in the marketplace  
— it tells customers where to place you in 
relation to your competitors.
 – The more you charge, the more value or 
quality your customers will expect for  
their money. 
 – This is a relative measure.