 
Marketing and the 7Ps – © CIM 2015  9
Marketing and the 7Ps: A brief summary of marketing and how it work
P7 
Physical evidence 
Choosing an unfamiliar product or 
service is risky for the consumer, because 
they don’t know how good it will be until after 
purchase. You can reduce this uncertainty by 
helping potential customers ‘see’ what they 
are buying. 
 – A clean, tidy and well-decorated reception 
area – or homepage - is reassuring. If your 
digital or physical premises aren’t up to 
scratch, why would the customer think your 
service is? 
 – The physical evidence demonstrated by an 
organisation must confirm the assumptions 
of the customer — a financial services 
product will need to be delivered in a 
formal setting, while a children’s birthday 
entertainment company should adopt a more 
relaxed approach.
 – Some companies engage customers and ask 
for their feedback, so that they can develop 
reference materials. New customers can then 
see these testimonials and are more likely to 
purchase with confidence. 
 – Although the customer cannot experience 
the service before purchase, he or she can 
talk to other people with experience of the 
service. Their testimony is credible, because 
their views do not come from the company. 
Alternatively, well-shot video testimonials 
and reviews on independent websites will 
add authenticity.
Each of the ‘ingredients’ of the marketing mix is 
key to success. No element can be considered in 
isolation — you cannot, for example, develop a 
product without considering a price, or how it 
will reach the customer. 
The process of considering the seven Ps and together to 
form a cohesive strategy is called marketing planning. 
10 Marketing and the 7Ps – © CIM 2015 
Marketing and the 7Ps: A brief summary of marketing and how it work
04  
Planning a marketing strategy 
Marketing focuses on the fundamental 
practices that every company has to carry 
out - identifying customers, researching their 
needs and preferences, analysing factors 
that influence their purchasing decisions and 
persuading them to buy products and services 
from you rather than a competitor. 
All this requires a strategy that is coordinated, 
considered and realistic in terms of making 
the most effective use of the resources and 
budgets available. 
Planning a marketing strategy starts with a 
detailed and ongoing investigation of the market 
and its sub-markets or segments. Companies 
look at the social, political, economic, cultural 
and technological trends which are shaping 
the market, their own position within it and 
the resources they can marshal to change or 
influence it. This is sometimes known as the 
marketing audit. 
A marketing plan defining objectives, targets 
and performance measures is then developed, 
along with a financial budget. When specific 
goals have been defined, alternatives to the 
status quo can be discussed, and ways to 
achieve those alternatives can be chosen. 
The marketing strategy is then formalised 
within a specific plan of action, which is 
constantly revised and updated, and the 
marketing campaign progresses. 
Planning an effective marketing strategy is 
intimately bound up with the planning process 
for the entire business, because it is linked 
to overall corporate strategy and requires 
endorsement from the top. The strategy also 
needs to be continually reviewed. Therefore, 
collaboration between marketing and other 
corporate activities such as finance, research, 
development and production, is important to 
effectively implementing the marketing strategy. 
Marketing is a team effort requiring the 
orchestration of a range of different skills, 
outlooks and personalities. Some aspects of 
marketing deal solely in facts and finance; 
others explore the ambiguities and uncertainties 
of changing consumer styles. A coherent 
marketing strategy is essential to managing 
change, as companies everywhere operate in 
technological, legislative, corporate and market 
environments of rapid transition and change.
“ Planning a marketing strategy starts with a detailed 
and ongoing investigation of the market and its  
sub-markets or segments. ”
Marketing and the 7Ps – © CIM 2015  11
Marketing and the 7Ps: A brief summary of marketing and how it work
05  
Future trends in marketing 
We live and work in a world of unprecedented 
social and technological upheaval, which has 
introduced new levels of competition for all 
kinds of organisations. Business is becoming 
global, customers are more demanding, many 
mature markets offer little room for growth, 
brand valuation is recognised on financial 
balance sheets and environmental pressures 
are growing. Compounding every other difficulty, 
the pace of change is quickening all the time  
– speed of market introduction and acceptance 
are important factors. 
The economic context is changing, so marketing 
is changing too. New social trends and corporate 
structures have opened up fresh avenues of 
opportunity for marketers to become even 
more central to business success. Only recently, 
technologies including database marketing, 
direct-to-plate printing and video-conferencing, 
the Internet and intranets were buzzwords for 
marketers. Since then, viral campaigns and social 
media have become everyday terms. Technology 
today offers exciting opportunities that would 
have been out of reach a generation ago. What 
will tomorrow look like?
As organisations introduce streamlined 
management hierarchies and flexible working 
practices, the marketing approach is proving a 
valuable interdisciplinary asset to companies that 
want to break down internal boundaries to focus 
exclusively on what the company is good at. 
Distinct trends for the future of marketing 
have emerged in recent years, and continue to 
develop. First, renewed emphasis is being placed 
on the collection, analysis and use of more (and 
better) marketing information.
The explosion of data available to companies 
thanks to the internet has complicated the issue, 
but also offers incredible opportunities to reach 
consumers in a targeted way.
Second, more importance is being attached to 
measuring and monitoring performance, and 
more sophisticated tools are being developed 
to do the job as part of the general drive to 
be more accountable. ‘Big data’, analytics and 
measurement are playing ever greater roles in 
marketing strategy.
Thirdly, there is growing investment in staff 
training and development, with particular 
emphasis on continuing professional 
development so that companies can more 
effectively defend the competitive advantage 
that successful marketing gives them. 
One of the strengths of marketing is the way 
it constantly adapts and responds to changing 
conditions. Though our changing world creates 
unexpected challenges, the modern marketer 
will continue to overcome them with new tools 
and techniques, helping companies to defend 
their competitive advantage.
“ One of the strengths of marketing is the way it constantly 
adapts and responds to changing conditions.”
