 If you are the most 
expensive provider in your market, customers 
will expect you to provide a better service. 
 – Everything that the customer sees must 
be consistent with these higher quality 
expectations — packaging, environment, 
promotional materials, website, letterheads, 
invoices, etc.
 – Existing customers are generally less 
sensitive about price than new customers  
— a good reason to look after them well.
P3 
Place
The product must be available in the 
right place, at the right time and in the right 
quantity, while keeping storage, inventory and 
distribution costs to an acceptable level. 
The place where customers buy a product, and 
the means of distributing your product to that 
place, must be appropriate and convenient for 
the customer. This applies to brick-and-mortar 
operations, but is even more important  
in e-commerce.
 – Customer surveys show that delivery 
performance is one of the most important 
criteria when choosing a supplier. 
 – Place also means ways of displaying your 
product to customer groups. This could be in 
a shop window, but it could also be online.
 – E-commerce operations that sell exclusively 
on the internet must place even more 
emphasis on the company website and 
other online activities, as there are fewer 
points where the customer will interact 
with the company.   
 – For the same reason, all firms that sell online 
should consider how the product will be 
delivered to the consumer – even if this is 
handled by a third party.
 – Mobile is an increasingly important 
purchasing channel for consumers, so it may 
be a good time to optimise your website. 
Does yours conform to the latest standards? 
For example, Google search now penalises 
websites that are not optimised for mobile, 
potentially making it more difficult for 
consumers to find you.
 
Marketing and the 7Ps – © CIM 2015  7
Marketing and the 7Ps: A brief summary of marketing and how it work
P4 
Promotion
Promotion is the way a company 
communicates what it does and what it 
can offer customers. It includes branding, 
advertising, PR, corporate identity, social media 
outreach, sales management, special offers and 
exhibitions. Promotion must gain attention, be 
appealing, send a consistent message and - 
above all - give the customer a reason to choose 
your product rather than someone else’s. 
 – Good promotion is not one-way communication 
— it paves the way for a dialogue with 
customers, whether in person or online. 
 – Promotion should communicate the benefits 
that a customer receives from a product, not 
just its features.
 – Your website is often the customer’s first 
experience of your company – you only have 
one chance to make a good first impression, 
so make sure that information on the site 
is always kept up to date and the design is 
updated to keep it fresh.
 – Explore new channels – from traditional print 
ads to the latest social media trends, there 
is now a world of possibilities to explore. The 
important principle is to always advertise 
where your target consumer goes.
 – Printed promotional material must grab 
the attention of your customers. It should 
be easy to read and enable the customer to 
identify why they should buy your product 
 – A brochure isn’t necessarily the best way 
of promoting your business. Unlike your 
website, the information is fixed once a 
brochure has been printed. A more cost-
effective and flexible option might be a folder 
with a professionally designed sheet inside, 
over a series of your own information sheets 
produced in-house. These sheets can be 
customised by varying them to suit the target 
customers and/or changing them as required 
 – Promotion does not just mean communicating 
with your customers. It is just as important 
to communicate with staff/fellow 
employees about the value and attributes 
of your products. They can then pass on the 
knowledge to their customers.
8 Marketing and the 7Ps – © CIM 2015 
Marketing and the 7Ps: A brief summary of marketing and how it work
P5 
People
Everyone who comes into contact 
with your customers will make an impression. 
Many customers cannot separate the product 
or service from the staff member who provides 
it, so your people will have a profound effect — 
positive or negative — on customer satisfaction. 
 – The reputation of your brand rests in 
the hands of your staff. They must be 
appropriately trained, well-motivated and 
have the right attitude. 
 – All employees who have contact with 
customers should be well-suited to the role. 
 – In the age of social media, every employee 
can potentially reach a mass audience. 
Formulate a policy for online interaction and 
make sure everyone stays on-message.
 – Likewise, happy customers are excellent 
advocates for your business. Curate good 
opinion on review sites.
 – Superior after sales support and advice 
adds value to your offering, and can give 
you a competitive edge. These services will 
probably become more important than price 
for many customers over time. 
 – Look regularly at the products that account 
for the highest percentage of your sales. Do 
these products have adequate after sales 
support, or are you being complacent with 
them? Could you enhance your support 
without too much additional cost? 
P6 
Process
Many customers no longer simply buy 
a product or service - they invest in an entire 
experience that starts from the moment they 
discover your company and lasts through to 
purchase and beyond. 
 – That means the process of delivering the 
product or service, and the behaviour of 
those who deliver it, are crucial to customer 
satisfaction. A user-friendly internet 
experience, waiting times, the information 
given to customers and the helpfulness of 
staff are vital to keep customers happy. 
 – Customers are not interested in the detail 
of how your business runs, just that the 
system works. However, they may want 
reassurance they are buying from a reputable 
or ‘authentic’ supplier.
 – Remember the value of a good first 
impression. Identify where most customers 
initially come into contact with your 
company - whether online or offline - and 
ensure the process there, from encounter to 
purchase, is seamless.
 – Ensure that your systems are designed for 
the customer’s benefit, not the company’s 
convenience.
 – Do customers have to wait? Are they kept 
informed? Is your website fast enough and 
available on the right devices? Are your 
people helpful? Is your service efficiently 
carried out? Do your staff interact in a 
manner appropriate to your pricing? 
 – Customers trying to reach your company 
by phone are a vital source of income and 
returning value; but so often they are left on 
hold. Many will give up, go elsewhere and tell 
their friends not to use your company - just 
because of the poor process.