 Working with you has pushed me 
out of my position." But the reality was that her passiveness prevented her from 
seizing this opportunity. Her passiveness didn't let her shine. 
 
First Successful Client 
 
In contrast to the previous example, the story of my venture into the bridal 
industry started with one of my first successful clients. She became familiar with 
me because of my engagement dress. The first time I went to her, we chatted a 
bit. She said she wanted to improve her Instagram presence. My academic 
background was in marketing, and I had thousands of ideas for her. 
 
I chose the engagement dress, but our conversation ended there. When I got 
home, I scolded myself. Why didn't I make her an offer? Why didn't I suggest 
working together? 
 
Finally, I gathered my courage and went back to her shop. This time, after 
placing my order, I made her an offer. I said, "I have ideas, and I can help you 
expand your business through Instagram." Right then and there, we struck a 
deal, and she agreed to start working together once I returned from my 
engagement. 
 
My engagement was in my hometown, Bandar Abbas. As soon as I returned, I 
went to her shop, and we began our collaboration. I put my passiveness aside. It 
was that contract and the successes of her page that allowed me to progress 
rapidly in my consulting business for bridal-related businesses. You too should 
put your passiveness aside to be noticed, and when you allow yourself to be 
seen, you'll grow with newfound opportunities. 
 
Undermining Beliefs 
 
Another downside of passiveness is that we often compromise our beliefs and 
values, meaning we set aside what we believe to be right. 
 
For example, a woman invited to a party with unveiled guests avoids attending 
because she's shy about preserving her hijab (veil). Or, if she does go, she feels 
compelled to behave like everyone else. In the end, she feels defeated. How 
frustrating is that? 
 
Another woman has decided to be a vegetarian for a long time. However, the 
first time she's invited to her future spouse's house, she's too shy to mention it 
and is forced to eat meat. Maybe from your perspective and mine, this might 
not seem important. However, it was her belief, and because of her passiveness, 
she compromised it. 
 
Another girl says, "It's essential for me to be independent and study at the best 
universities. However, going to a different city is so bad in our family and 
neighborhood, and I'm scared of what others might say. I was previously 
accepted into the state university in Tehran, but I didn't go to stay with my 
family, and now I've agreed to study at the local university." 
 
Another woman doesn't continue her education, even though she believes she 
should study more and grow. Why? She says it's because she's too shy that 
people might say her education is more than her husband's. These individuals, 
due to their passiveness, have set aside their important beliefs and values in life. 
 
Financial Losses 
 
Another cost that passiveness and passiveness have inflicted upon us is missed 
financial opportunities. We mentioned earlier how passiveness directly reduces 
certain amounts of money from us, but what about the opportunities you've 
missed or the income you could have earned but didn't due to your passiveness? 
 
You've lent money, and it hasn't been returned, money that you could have 
invested in your business. You've been too shy to charge for your services when 
you could have promoted your work. All of these passiveness-induced financial 
losses are substantial. 
 
Once again, I ask you to sit down after this chapter and fill out the questionnaire 
of damage and review it once more. In fact, the financial losses we discussed 
earlier have surely caused non-material losses as well.