Introduction 
Mrs. Mirzaei, what if my friends or family members don't agree with my change 
in behavior and being courageous causes me to lose them? After all, my loved 
ones are important people in my life. 
 
Hello, Ladyboss. I'm delighted that we're in communication. I am Razieh 
Mirzaei, the author of the book "Character of Courage," and I appreciate that 
you've considered us as your confidants and raised your concerns. If the above 
question is the last barrier to you reading the book, I'm more than willing to 
address this topic in the book's introduction. 
 
When I started this journey myself, I had the same concern, and I know it 
terrifies many of you. I was scared too, but I took action. Nevertheless, the fear 
of losing my loved ones gave me a lot of energy. Later, I realized that this belief 
was entirely mistaken, and I had needlessly worried. 
 
These days, you hear a lot of statements like: 
- Winners end up alone. 
- If you grow, those around you stay behind. 
- You have to eliminate them from your life to succeed. 
 
But all of this is a lie. They say these things to scare you and prevent you from 
desiring change, keeping you in your place. 
 
What we've seen is entirely the opposite. The content of this book is a summary 
of in-person and online Character of Courage workshops, and we've had over 
15,000 participants. In designing Character of Courage workshops, I've attended 
over ten training courses, read more than a hundred books, and interviewed 
over a thousand successful women. So rest assured that you're reading the most 
genuine answers here. 
What Have We Seen? 
 
Out of every 10 people who grew, 9 of them influenced a change in their 
surroundings. Be sure that when you take a step forward, they will also come to 
you and join you. I ask you to embark on this marvelous journey with us for the 
sake of your loved ones, the next generation, and society. 
 
When you improve yourself, those around you also start to take action. 
 
The most important point is that as long as you haven't reached decisive, 
respectful, and fair behavior, as long as your character of courage hasn't reached 
its ideal state, you don't need to impose your learnings on others. You shouldn't 
try to convince the opposers. Please, don't force anyone to read this book. 
 
Words are just hot air. A woman in charge shows results. You can only influence 
others through your actions and results, not through words. If you start arguing 
with those around you right from the beginning and make them upset with your 
words, it's your responsibility. First, read the book from cover to cover in 
complete silence and practice the exercises. Soon enough, you'll feel the results, 
and sooner or later, those around you will come to you and ask what you've 
done. So be patient until then. 
 
Although the path is not without challenges, today, I have my family and loved 
ones by my side. I took action and became a source of good and motivation for 
those around me. For example, just this year, I took my parents to Mashhad for 
a trip, and we stayed in the city's best hotel. My younger sister joined me three 
years ago, and she has become so courageous that today she's one of the top 
managers in an academy in Iran. My sister, who used to be just an introverted 
student spending most of her time at home, now handles some of the most 
important sessions. 
 
In high school, I had a close friend, and we've stayed in touch since then. Just 
last year, she chose the path of a courageous woman and pursued her dreams. I 
took action and became a role model for them through my actions and results. 
Today, I have the love and support of my loved ones by my side. But if I had 
been afraid on the first day and listened to those lies, none of these amazing 
things would have happened to them. Perhaps seven years ago, if you had asked 
me, I would have never imagined it. 
 
You might wonder what difference one person out of ten can make? 
 
You should know that the Character of Courage techniques are very powerful.