 We wrote it down and agreed that I would complete this work, and 
you would pay this fee. I have now completed the work. Deposit the amount." 
 
They might make you feel guilty, saying, "You know the market conditions are 
tough. We're struggling to pay our employees' salaries. How can you take so 
much money from us?" You can say, "I'll take one million Tomans now, and you 
deliver the work. Rest assured, I'll deposit the rest." 
 
Ladies, if your request is rightful, don't overlook your rights. Say, "I understand 
your conditions because I'm living in the same conditions. I've put a lot of time 
into getting this job done. We agreed, so please do it." 
 
The CD-R technique says the same thing: go back to your rightful demand and 
repeat it again and again, 4 times, 5 times, 10 times if necessary, without getting 
angry, losing your temper, or feeling embarrassed and backing down. 
 
You don't need to be a tough talker. Many times, it seems like you have to be a 
fierce speaker from the outside of the business world and the market, but that's 
not the case. It always seems like you need to have a few smart dialogues up 
your sleeve. It's not like you have to present a more logical argument for every 
argument the other side makes. The CD-R technique helps you more than any 
other argument. 
 
You might think that you need to have all the steps precisely done and 
documented, that is, everything needs to be specified. But that's not the case at 
all. 
 
It's true that having everything done precisely helps to avoid getting cheated, 
but every market has its customs, even if your agreement was purely verbal, you 
can still use the CD-R technique. Be sure that the other person, as soon as they 
see you are serious, backs off. Sometimes, they provoke you because they know 
there are many shy people in our society, and it's easy to take advantage of their 
rights. But when they see you're using the CD-R technique without losing your 
temper or backing down, they understand you're not like them, they can't fool 
you, they can't put you in a difficult position as they do with others. 
 
So when you're sure your demand is rightful, be sure to use the CD-R technique. 
Choose that sentence and repeat it after whatever arguments or excuses they 
bring, even if it's dozens of times! 
 
So now it's your turn. I give you 3 minutes to write at least 3 situations from your 
past where you could have used the CD-R technique but didn't, for whatever 
reason. Cases where you experienced not saying your rightful demand or only 
said it once and the other party didn't accept it for any reason. You missed out, 
but now that you're back, you see there was no need to cut it short. 
 
Write down at least 3 cases, and then write down the CD-R sentence for each 
one. Which sentence should you have repeated to get your rightful demand? 
Write it in front of each case. 
 
... 
... 
... 
 
Ladies, the CD-R technique is very effective and practical, but you can use it 
when you've practiced it, when the neural pathway is established. Alongside the 
mental exercises and exercises you have in this book, events in your daily life will 
occur where it's the perfect opportunity to practice the CD-R technique. 
 
Title: Small Acts of Assertiveness 
 
There are some things I want to tell you that may not seem very important to 
you in general. Sometimes, your rights are being violated, but it's in a small way, 
and you might not even notice it. It's important to recognize these situations. 
 
For example, you're in a café with a friend, you've ordered saffron tea, but they 
bring you regular tea instead. Maybe it doesn't matter much to you, but you 
should use assertiveness. 
 
- This is not what I ordered. Please change my drink. Darling, I specifically asked 
for saffron tea, and this isn't it. Please replace it. 
- No, you didn't say that. You just said tea. 
- No, I'm sure I only drink saffron tea. What I requested is not what I got. Please 
change it. 
- No, you'll like this one. I know it's very good, and you'll become our regular 
customer.