" 
Instead, I would say: 
"Look, firstly, in the current situation of the COVID-19 pandemic, there's a risk 
that all the guests might be exposed to the virus at your wedding. Secondly, 
considering the financial situation, the money you're planning to spend on the 
wedding could be better invested for your future, like taking a trip. So, my 
suggestion is not to have a wedding and allocate that money to something more 
beneficial. Fortunately, the culture of not having a wedding has become more 
accepted, and relatives won't look down upon it." 
 
So, ladies, you can see that with the Triple Opinion Technique, I expressed my 
opinion in a very respectful manner in a situation where my opinion differs from 
others', and I conveyed my point effectively. 
 
 
Fear of Expressing Opinions 
 
Don't forget that the Triple Opinion Technique involves stating the first fact, 
then the second fact, and finally presenting a proposal. Now, I'll demonstrate 
another aspect:  
 
If you've noticed, in the examples, I didn't just answer with a simple yes or no; I 
included a proposal to help the other person achieve their goal better. 
 
For instance, I said yes, start a business in Istanbul, but my proposal is to work 
on businesses that receive more support and are thriving. 
 
I also said not to have a wedding, but I recommended examining how you can 
invest the money more wisely. In other words, I stated my opinion and provided 
a proposal. 
 
This approach creates a higher standing for you in the group, makes others 
reconsider their stance, and even if they disagree, they might acknowledge that 
your opinion was well-thought-out. From this point on, they may take your 
opinions more seriously. 
 
Now, you've learned a practical technique from this book. I urge you to trust 
your coach completely. In the second half of the book, I'll provide you with 
effective techniques. However, you can't use these techniques in your life unless 
you continue reading the book carefully and practice the root change exercises. 
 
In the continuation of Chapter 2, I intend to show you the dark side of low self-
confidence. It's time to see what damages you've suffered from low self-
confidence and prepare your mind to transform into a high-confidence lady. 
 
 
The First Cost of Passiveness: Suppressing Emotions 
 
You don't express your feelings, and that's one of the worst blows passiveness 
can deal. I've heard sentences like these many times: 
 
"I liked them, but..." 
"I was bothered by their behavior, but..." 
"They talked behind my back, but..." 
"I realized they were upset, but..." 
 
How many opportunities have we missed because of suppressing our emotions? 
How many people, joys, and pleasures have we lost in our lives? 
 
I urge you that after this chapter, return to your questionnaire and add any of 
the cases I've mentioned, or will mention, if you've experienced them. Definitely 
add them, and don't forget. 
 
The Second Cost of Passiveness: Going Unnoticed 
 
When you go unnoticed, you certainly won't grow. There was a lady at my 
workplace who never shared her ideas and remained stagnant for years. She got 
stuck in the same position for years. 
 
I ask you, how many people have you seen at work or elsewhere who weren't 
deserving of their positions but got noticed and gained opportunities because 
they praised themselves and their work? How about you? Do you think if you 
presented yourself better and more, you'd be in a better position now? 
 
One of our employees had a small Instagram page. Her videos were really good. 
She was very creative and hardworking. I suggested multiple times that because 
her page had reached good places, she should collaborate with us and promote 
herself on my page. However, she kept saying no, that her page had 
shortcomings, and so on. Because of these minor flaws, she put my suggestion 
aside and missed all those opportunities. 
 
Until one day she said, "I don't want to work with you anymore. I've always 
worked for you, and I haven't been noticed.