 One very important reason 
was passiveness. I didn't know that I was shy. Passiveness is not just about 
sitting at a party, turning red, and being unable to speak. When you can't use 
communication skills to present yourself like a confident lady and grow, it 
means you are shy. 
 
I realized that I was shy. In simple terms, I lacked courage, and this was 
hindering my growth. I understood that I needed to learn more about 
passiveness to overcome it. Let me ask you two questions to make the issue 
more understandable: 
 
Firstly, how many times have you avoided doing something because you didn't 
have the courage, and someone else went and did it, achieving great progress? 
 
Secondly, how many times have you had an extraordinary idea, but due to the 
opinions of others, someone's words, or an obstacle, you let it go? 
 
If you have had similar experiences, it means you also need to overcome your 
lack of courage. In this chapter, I want to talk to you about the roots of girls' lack 
of courage. 
 
Roots of Passiveness 
In my research, I've identified some of the external roots of passiveness. 
Mockery, ridicule, and societal norms that exist in our culture were prevalent 
during my early years. The negative patterns we had were embedded in the 
same environment: family, school, and society. It seemed like these external 
factors were the roots of passiveness. 
 
However, within this society and situation, I saw many women who were truly 
confident, had overcome their passiveness, and become assertive. They 
presented themselves, asserted their rights, made requests, and no one could 
take advantage of them. I came to the conclusion that it's not just about 
external factors; there are more significant internal roots that need to be 
addressed. Throughout my research, I discovered that our passiveness has two 
primary internal roots. Pay close attention: 
 
The Tale of Two Brains 
Dear friends, simply put, we have two brains. The first brain is our ancient brain 
and is located at the back of our head. This brain has been around for a while. It 
exists in all reptiles, which is why it's called the "reptilian brain." 
The ancient brain is very basic and has only two functions: flight and fight. For 
example, if I were to suddenly startle you from behind with a loud noise while 
you were reading a book, you would jump. This is the response of the ancient 
brain. 
However, in front of our heads, we have another brain, the new brain. This brain 
is trainable and learns what to do other than flight and fight. For example, early 
humans and our ancestors, who were cave dwellers, either ran away when they 
saw a wild animal or, if they thought they were strong enough, they fought it. 
But our new brain gradually learned that we don't need to run away. We can 
climb trees, make fire, and scare them away. More importantly, we had to take 
care of our children. First, save them. The primitive human gradually learned, 
and so did we. 
Our ancient brain is fixed, and our new brain is trainable. Now, in today's world, 
our ancient brain pulls us towards passiveness instead of flight and towards 
aggression instead of fighting; that is, it has replaced flight and fight with 
passiveness and aggression. Right now, some of our girls are shy, and some are 
aggressive. Isn't that the case? 
 
Why do we experience passiveness? 
The first root of passiveness is that we don't have the correct files in our new 
brain to show us the right way to behave confidently in situations. For example, 
if someone cuts in front of us in line or takes our place, or someone asks us for 
something that we should say no to but can't say no without feeling hurt, our 
new brain looks for the new file and the right way to behave. For instance, if we 
knew the right way to assert our rights without causing a commotion, then our 
new brain would use this file and display the correct behavior. But when it 
doesn't find the file, it turns to the ancient brain. We flee from the situation to 
avoid confrontation.