 So, the first fundamental problem is that in the 
environment of assertiveness, we don't have the right files in our new brain. 
 
The Tale of the Brain's Corner 
Now, let's move on to the second root: the second root of passiveness resides in 
a corner of your brain (amygdala) responsible for your emotions. Somewhere in 
the corner of our brain, there is a connection between events and emotions. 
For instance, in childhood, you accidentally cut your hand with a knife, and it 
hurt. You've been avoiding knives ever since because they hurt you before. From 
now on, whenever you see a knife, you flee from it because it has previously 
caused you pain. You've stored in your brain: knife equals pain! 
 
Or, for example, in childhood, you said something interesting in a group of 
people, and they scolded you and made fun of you. You felt embarrassed and 
ashamed. You've stored in that corner of your brain: a group of people equals 
shame! 
Another example is that in a straightforward situation, you asked for your right. 
The other person reacted poorly, and you felt humiliated and embarrassed. 
You've stored in that corner of your brain: asserting your right equals 
embarrassment! 
That Doesn't Allow You to Be Yourself 
When certain social situations become associated with pain, that corner of your 
brain becomes fearful. When you find yourself in such a situation again, your 
heart rate increases. For example, when you used to fear being in a group, your 
heart would race, your face would turn red, you would sweat, and you would feel 
uneasy from within. 
 
If you react this way in a situation, it means that corner of your brain has an 
issue. You tell yourself "it's not a big deal, you just want to introduce yourself. 
You're not supposed to die", but suddenly, your mouth goes dry, hormones are 
released that cut off your access to long-term memory. This state is what we call 
"brain freeze." 
 
You can't remember anything, just like when your tongue gets tied, and you 
don't know what to say. Hours later, for instance, in the bathroom at night, you 
suddenly remember what you should have said. I remember The first time I did a 
live stream on Instagram, as soon as it started, this happened to me, and my 
brain froze. I had forgotten everything. 
 
Most importantly, your level of Consciousness decreases. You become like a 
four-year-old child. For example, a woman has worked hard to save money for 
her wedding expenses. About two months later, it's her wedding day, but when 
someone asks her for a loan, she lends it to them and feels embarrassed to say 
no. In stressful situations, saying no becomes painful for her. It doesn't occur to 
her that if she can't get the money back from the other person, she herself will 
suffer and her wedding ceremony will be ruined. In sensitive situations, her 
Consciousness decreases, she can't think clearly, and most importantly, she 
avoids and withdraws. 
 
Whenever you feel you're supposed to ask or speak up in a group, that corner of 
your brain doesn't allow it, and it says no, avoid, flee. You won't enter 
gatherings anymore, you won't present yourself, you'll say "forget it, it's too 
much trouble." Many of you say this to yourselves. You tell yourselves you'll 
Compromise, because that corner of your brain is scared, and this is the second 
root of passiveness. 
 
 
 
How to Become a Confident Woman? 
Now, you want to become a confident woman. You've understood that your 
passiveness has two primary roots, and if you want to become confident, you 
need to address these two roots. You need to change both the habit on one 
hand and the file so that the corner of your brain understands that being timid 
has more fear and harm. On the other hand, you should create new 
communication files and learn new skills in your new brain. When you do both of 
these together, you become a confident woman. 
 
How do you do this? We have various techniques to dry up the roots of 
passiveness in your mind and make the corner of your brain understand that you 
should become a confident woman.